# Bangalore Accident Data

The objective of analyzing Bangalore accident data is to gain insights into the patterns and trends of accidents gathered from different types of Collisions Avoidance Systems installed in BMTC buses operating in various locations of the city in order to identify the factors contributing to accidents, evaluate the effectiveness of warning systems, and provide recommendations for targeted safety measures. By understanding the characteristics of accidents and their variations throughout the year, the objective is to contribute to the development of strategies that enhance road safety, reduce accidents, and mitigate risks in Bangalore.

Grey Spot Dataset by Intel contains JSON files on monthly data collected by Collision Avoidance System installed in buses and has mapping of data on imminent collisions in areas in the city of Bangalore.

This repository contains the dataset in a CSV format, whereby a Python script was used to wrangle the data and convert it into an Excel file for visualisation.

The [visualisation/dashboard] (https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/yasir.savanur/viz/BangaloreAccidentsGeoSpatialAnalysis/ColisionHotspotsDashboard) was created using Tableau.

## About the Dataset

The dataset was retrieved from [Kaggle] (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/apoorvwatsky/bangalore-accident-data?search=bangalore+cas)

- deviceCode - Unique device code for the CAS installed in the vehicles; latitude - The latitude of the location where the collision warning was generate; longitude - The longitude of the location where the collision warning was generated; wardName - The ward in which this location (lat, long) falls under -> BBMP GeoJSON for Bangalore wards have been used to identify the ward based on the lat/long data. alarmType - The type of collision alert generated by the collision avoidance system, following are the types:

- Forward Collision Warning (FCW)

- Headway/Following Time Monitoring & Warning (HMW)

- Lane Departure Warning Left (LDWL)

- Lane Departure Warning Right (LDWR)

- Speed Limit Indicator (Overspeed)

- Pedestrian & Cyclist Collision Warning (PCW)

- Urban Forward Collision Warning (FCW)

- recordedTime - The time at which the alert was generated; speed - The speed of the vehicle at the time when the collision alert was generated. Values of all the speed are in km/hr. Regarding the alert type over speeding, it generates the alert based on the road signs with actual speed value recorded. There could be anomalies in time synchronization between the alert the speed value, because this value does not come from the collision avoidance system but from the FMS system.
